>> Jason Lengstorf: The ultimate goal here
is that we wanna give you good defaults so
that, right out of the gate,
you will create a Gatsby site and publish
it with no changes, and you're gonna score
straight hundreds on performance audits.
You're going to deliver an experience
that loads in under a second, or
under two seconds, for
people on mobile phones.
And these are the types of things
that make a huge difference.
We're not talking about strict
performance in this workshop.
But there have been a ton of studies about
how much it affects conversion rates and
revenue to have a web site load faster.
Over three seconds you start
losing about 50% of your traffic.
That's a really high bounce rate.
And so you wanna make sure that
you're getting under that.
So under the hood we set
a bunch of good defaults.
We follow the purple pattern,
which if you've ever listened
to he talks about this a lot.
I'm not going into what that is today, but
this is a great thing to Google
later if you're interested.
If you're not interested,
don't worry about it.
Gatsby does it for you.
We also do other
performance best practices,
code splitting, and pre-fetching in
the background and all this stuff.
We generate only static assets so
we're not gonna make you stand
up a node server in production.
We're not gonna make you
worry about whether or
not your database is highly available.
It doesn't matter because you
only need your server and
your database to be available during
build, and then after that the site can't
really go down unless the CDN fails and
so that gives you security benefits.
There is no database access so
you can't get your database
hacked through your website.
It's a static site.
They can deface it, but then you just
like reupload the files and it's gone.
They have no server access.
They have no database access.
You also optimized and
lazy-load your assets.
So your images are gonna get
automatically scaled down and
we generate the right sizes for
different resolutions.
We do a lazy-loading solution that's going
to kind of blur in the full size image so
that you don't get jank
as the images load.
But also it doesn't block
the page from loading.
We normalize third-party data.
We talked about this
with the content mesh.
Again, the reason this is valuable
in setting right defaults,
making the right thing the easy thing,
is if you're running an agency,
if you're working as a freelancer,
your clients are gonna have
different systems that they use where
one's gonna wanna use this CMS.
One's gonna wanna use that CMS.
And the overhead of switching between
those projects can be really high.
But if you're using Gatsby,
because it's normalizing that data,
your team now has a lot of transferability
because the overall structure of working
on a Gatsby site is really familiar,
no matter where the data comes from,
because it's just
reacting GraphQL queries.
So you get a lot more
crossover between teams,
a lot more ability to quickly collaborate,
without a lot of context switching.
>> Jason Lengstorf: But importantly,
we wanna make sure that
developers don't lose control.
One of the things that's really
challenging about zero-config solutions
is that they set good defaults.
But then when you find yourself
wanting to leave those defaults,
you end up ejecting the entire app.
You have to maintain everything.
So we wanted to make it so that if you
need to add a new web pack loader,
if you wanna change up your babble
config and use type script or reason or
whatever as your build layer for
your Gatsby site, you can do that.
You can modify this config.
But you only have to
customize what you need.
If you change your web pack config, that
doesn't mean that you have to completely
give up all of Gatsby's defaults and
then suddenly manage them yourselves.
You're able to just customize the thing
that you want to customize and then we'll
compose that together so that you are only
ejecting the piece that you need.
We call this progressive
disclosure of complexity.
If you are interested in the kinda
learning theory behind why we do that and
what we're after I've got
a blog post on it and
we talk about it kind of frequently.
It's a little beyond what we
want to talk about today.